# Heart-Failure-Prediction
The population of our earth will be 8 billion by 2023. In a year, 17.9 million deaths occur due to just heart failures which is caused by various heart disease. This generally means that the heart ceases to stop functioning. This is almost 32 percent of the entire global population. In comparison to the population of the earth that increases in a year which is 90 million, that is a huge mortality rate just occurring due to heart failures. Just in UK, 460 people die in a day on average which means a person dies each minute. This is one of the most commonly occurring death and is caused by various factors. Now we can understand how big of a deal this is, now induces this question - What can be done about this? There might be a lot of solutions in the medical field but how machine learning helps us in anyway? One thing can be said for sure; Machine learning may not come up with the solution for heart failures but can give rise to algorithms that can “predict” the heart failures with consideration of certain attributes such as age, sex, cholesterol, blood pressure and a little more. This research paper based on these attributes will be talking about predicting heart failure occurring in a person. We prepare a prediction system we can tell which person is more likely to be diagnosed with heart disease in consideration with their medical history. We use different machine learning algorithms in classification such as Logistic regression, Support Vector Machine (SVM), K-nearest Neighbors (KNN), Decision Tree and Random Forest by taking the accuracy as the evaluator. This helps in reducing the time and enhances the prediction of heart disease in a patient.
